
#  5. Argo CD Applications:

+ Argo CD applications, projects and settings can be defined declaratively using Kubernetes manifests. 
+ These can be updated using kubectl apply, without needing to touch the argocd command-line tool.

+ For Application and AppProject resources, the name of the resource equals the name of the application or project within Argo CD. 
+ This also means that application and project names are unique within a given Argo CD installation
+ you cannot have the same application name for two different applications.

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

## 5.1. Applications:

+ The Application CRD is the Kubernetes resource object representing a deployed application instance in an environment. 
+ It is defined by two key pieces of information:

+ source:  reference to the desired state in Git (repository, revision, path, environment)

+ destination:  reference to the target cluster and namespace. 
+ For the cluster one of server or name can be used, but not both (which will result in an error). 
+ Under the hood when the server is missing, it is calculated based on the name and used for any operations.


____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

## 5.2. A minimal Application spec is as follows:


   '''
  
    apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
    kind: Application
    metadata:
      name: guestbook
      namespace: argocd
    spec:
    project: default
    source:
       repoURL: https://github.com/argoproj/argocd-example-apps.git
       targetRevision: HEAD
       path: guestbook
    destination:
      server: https://kubernetes.default.svc
      namespace: guestbook
    '''

	
     kubectl apply -n argocd -f application.yaml 

+ Argo CD will start deploying the guestbook application.

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

### 5.3. Projects:

+ The AppProject CRD is the Kubernetes resource object representing a logical grouping of applications. 
+ It is defined by the following key pieces of information:

+ sourceRepos reference : To the repositories that applications within the project can pull manifests from.
+ destinations reference: To clusters and namespaces that applications within the project can deploy into (don't use the name field, only the server field is matched).
+ roles list of entities with definitions of their access to resources within the project.

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

###  5.4.for Other Quries Please Refer Online Argo CD Documentation:

    '''
	
       https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/operator-manual/declarative-setup/
    '''

____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
