
#  2.SonarType Nexus Hosted Vs Group Vs Proxy Repositories:


## 2.1. Proxy Repository:

+ A proxy repository is a repository that is linked to a remote repository.
+ Any request for a component is verified against the local content of the proxy repository.
+ If no Local Component is Found, the request is forwarded to the remote repository.
+ The component is then retrieved and stored locally in the repository manager, which acts as a cache.
+ Subsequent requests for the same component are fulfilled from the local storage, therefore
+ Eliminating the network bandwidth and time overhead of retrieving the component from the remote repository again.

Ex: Maven-central, NPM, Docker, PyPI, Yum.


## 2.2. Hosted Repository:

+ This is the one that you host on your server through third party softwares like Nexus.
+ It Hosts any private libraries and artifacts of your organization that shouldn't be public for security reasons.
+ By Default, the repository manager ships with the following configured hosted repositories.

### Maven-Releases:

+ This Hosted Repository uses the maven2 repository format with a release version policy. 
+ Its intended to be the repository where your organization publishes internal release.

### Maven-Snapshots:

+ This Hosted Repository uses the maven2 repository format with a snapshot version policy. . Its intended to be the repository where your organization publishes internal development versions, also known as snapshots like 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT.


## 2.3. Group Repository:

+ A Repository group is a collection of other repositories, where you can combine multiple repositories,of the same format into a single item.
+ Using this we can have a single URL for Proxy and Hosted Repositories.


