
# 3. Sonatype Nexus Installation on Gcp Instance & Running as a service :


## 3.1. Sonatype Nexus System Requirements :

1. Minimum 1 VCPU & 2 GB Memory.
2. Server firewall opened for port 22 & 8081.
3. OpenJDK 8.
4. All Nexus processes should run as a non-root nexus user.



## 3.2. Sonatype Nexus 3 on Linux Gcp Instance:


### Step 1: 

+ Login to your Linux server and update the yum packages. Also install required utilities.

  '''

        sudo yum update -y
     	sudo yum install wget -y
  '''


### Step 2: 


+ Install OpenJDK 1.8


 '''
 
    sudo yum install java-1.8.0-openjdk.x86_64 -y

'''

### Step 3: 


+ Create a directory named app and cd into the directory.

 '''
   
     sudo mkdir /app && cd /app

 '''


### Step 4: 


+ Download the latest nexus. You can get the latest download links fo for nexus from here.


  '''
  
        sudo wget -O nexus.tar.gz https://download.sonatype.com/nexus/3/latest-unix.tar.gz
        sudo tar -xvf nexus.tar.gz
        sudo mv nexus-3* nexus

  '''

### Step 5: 

+ As a good security practice, it is not advised to run nexus service with root privileges. So create a new user named nexus to run the nexus service.

  '''
  
      sudo adduser nexus

  '''

+ Change the ownership of nexus files and nexus data directory to nexus user.

   '''
  
      sudo chown -R nexus:nexus /app/nexus
      sudo chown -R nexus:nexus /app/sonatype-work
   '''

### Step 6: 

+ Open /app/nexus/bin/nexus.rc file.

   '''
   
      sudo vi  /app/nexus/bin/nexus.rc
  
   
   
      Uncomment run_as_user parameter and set it as following.

      run_as_user="nexus"
	  
	  :wq!
	  

   '''

### Step 7: 

+ If you want to change the default nexus data directory, open the nexus properties file and change the data directory 
  -Dkaraf.data parameter to a preferred location as shown below. 
+ If you don’t specify anything, by default nexus data directory will be set to /app/sonatype-work/nexus3


+ Tip: For production setup, it is is always better to mount the nexus data directory to a separate data disk attached to the server.
       So that backup and restore can be done easily.


          '''


                sudo vi /app/nexus/bin/nexus.vmoptions

                -Xms2703m
                -Xmx2703m
                -XX:MaxDirectMemorySize=2703m
                -XX:+UnlockDiagnosticVMOptions
                -XX:+UnsyncloadClass
                -XX:+LogVMOutput
                -XX:LogFile=../sonatype-work/nexus3/log/jvm.log
                -XX:-OmitStackTraceInFastThrow
                -Djava.net.preferIPv4Stack=true
                -Dkaraf.home=.
                -Dkaraf.base=.
                -Dkaraf.etc=etc/karaf
                -Djava.util.logging.config.file=etc/karaf/java.util.logging.properties
                -Dkaraf.data=/nexus/nexus-data
                -Djava.io.tmpdir=../sonatype-work/nexus3/tmp
                -Dkaraf.startLocalConsole=false

                :wq!
           '''


## 3.3. Running Nexus as a System Service:

+ It is better to have systemd entry to manage nexus using systemctl. Follow the steps given below for adding nexus as a systemd service.
+ Create a nexus systemd unit file.


       
	   
	   '''



                sudo vi /etc/systemd/system/nexus.service

                [Unit]
                Description=nexus service
                After=network.target

               [Service]
               Type=forking
               LimitNOFILE=65536
               User=nexus
               Group=nexus
               ExecStart=/app/nexus/bin/nexus start
               ExecStop=/app/nexus/bin/nexus stop
               User=nexus
               Restart=on-abort

               [Install]
               WantedBy=multi-user.target

       '''


### Manage Nexus Service:


+ Execute the following command to add nexus service to boot.

  sudo chkconfig nexus on


+ To start the Nexus service, use the following command. If you are having trouble starting nexus, please check the troubleshooting section below.

  sudo systemctl start nexus


### Verify:

+ The above command will start the nexus service on port 8081. To access the nexus dashboard, 
  visit http://:8081. You will be able to see the nexus homepage as shown below.


+ To log in, use the default username and password.

1. Default username is admin
2. You can find the default admin password in "/app/sonatype-work/nexus3/admin.password" file. 
3. Sonatype Nexus not Starting [Troubleshooting] :

+ Sometimes, if the server is enabled with SELINUX, you might get the following error. (Commonly on Centos Servers)
+ Job for nexus.service failed because the control process exited with error code.
+ See "systemctl status nexus.service" and "journalctl -xe" for details.

+ Execute the following command and see the actual error.

 "journalctl -xe"


+ Check the output for the following SELINUX issue.

### SELinux is preventing /usr/lib/systemd/systemd from execute access on the file nexus.

+ To rectify this issue, add a SELinux policy to allow Systemd to access the nexus binary in path /app/nexus/bin/nexus using the following command

 sudo chcon -R -t bin_t /app/nexus/bin/nexus

+ Now, start the Nexus server again.

 sudo systemctl start nexus



## 3.4. How to check the Nexus version in Linux?:

+ curl --include --silent http://localhost:8081/ | grep Server

