
#  5. SonarType Nexus Proxy Repository Creation & Integrate with Maven to Download Build Dependencys to Build Artifact:


##  5.1. What is a proxy repository?

+ Dependency managers use components from public open-source repositories such as Central, npm, and PyPI to build applications. 
+ They will often use the local cache first to see if the component already exists in order to reduce the number of requests and 
  the bandwidth used to download all the components from the remote repository. 
+ This speeds up build times and keeps the final output consistent, however it can introduce risk as the local cache is not centrally
  managed or consistent everywhere the application is built.
+ Redirecting traffic through proxy repositories is a primary use case when using a universal artifact repository like Repository Manager.



## 5.2. Proxy Repository:

+ A repository with the type proxy, also known as a proxy repository, is a repository that is linked to a remote repository.
+ Any request for a component is verified against the local content of the proxy repository.
+ If no local component is found, the request is forwarded to the remote repository. 
+ The component is then retrieved and stored locally in the repository manager, which acts as a cache. 
+ Subsequent requests for the same component are then fulfilled from the local storage, therefore eliminating the network bandwidth 
  and time overhead of retrieving the component from the remote repository again.

### maven-central:

+ This proxy repository accesses the Central Repository, formerly known as Maven Central. 
+ It is the default component repository built into Apache Maven and is well-supported by other build tools like Gradle, SBT or Ant/Ivy.

### nuget.org-proxy:

+ This proxy repository accesses the NuGet Gallery. It is the default component repository used by the nuget package management tool used for
+ Net development.



##  5.3. Create a Proxy Repository:

''' 

     Step1: Select Repositorys then (Maven-2 Proxy.)
     Step2: Provide Details

     Name: Nexus_Proxy_Repo.
     Remote Repository: Provide Maven Central Repo URL Details.
     Other Repository Details : If Needed.

Step3: Create Repository.

'''


## 5.4. Integrate above Create proxy repo to maven to resolve dependencys automatically from online via proxy:


+ To integrate maven with nexus-proxy-repo to resolve 

1. In Maven Build Server go to ".m2" directory and create a "Settings.xml" file.

   '''
   
       cd ~/.m2/
       ls -ltrh
       touch settings.xml
       provide nexus proxy-repo details & authentification details.

   '''


##  5.5. verify:

  '''

    mvn clean install 


  '''

+ You can see build dependencys in proxy-repos.













