
#  6. SonarType Nexus Hosted Repository to Store a Maven Artifact to a .jar or .war file to Nexus Artifactory SnapShots or releases


##  6.1. Hosted Repository:

+ A repository with the type hosted, also known as a hosted repository, is a repository that stores components in the repository manager as the 
  authoritative location for these components.
+ By default, the repository manager ships with the following configured hosted repositories:


### 1. Maven-releases:

+ This hosted repository uses the maven2 repository format with a release version policy. 
+ It is intended to be the repository where your organization publishes internal releases. 
+ You can also use this repository for third-party components that are not available in external 
  repositories and can therefore not be retrieved via a configured proxy repository. 
+ Examples of these components could be commercial, proprietary libraries such as an Oracle JDBC driver that may be referenced by your organization


### 2. Maven-snapshots:

+ This hosted repository uses the maven2 repository format with a snapshot version policy. 
+ It is intended to be the repository where your organization publishes internal development versions, also known as snapshots.

### 3. Nuget-hosted:

+ This hosted repository is where your organization can publish internal releases in repository using the nuget repository format. 
+ You can also use this repository for third-party components that are not available in external repositories, that could potentially 
  be proxied to gain access to the components.



##  6.2. Create a Hosted Repositorys to Store the Build Artifact:


### 1. Release-Repository:


        '''

              Step1: Select Repositorys then (Maven-2 Hosted.)
              Step2: Provide Details

              Name: Nexus_Release_Repo.
              Deployment Policy: Disable Redeploy
              Other Repository Details : If Needed.

              Step3: Create Repository.

        '''

###  2. Snapshot-Repository:

        '''

              Step1: Select Repositorys then (Maven-2 Hosted.)
              Step2: Provide Details

              Name: Nexus_SnapShot_Repo.
              Deployment Policy: Disable Redeploy
              Other Repository Details : If Needed.

              Step3: Create Repository.

        '''
		

##  6.3. Integrate above Create proxy repo to maven to resolve dependencys automatically from online via proxy:


+ To integrate maven with nexus-proxy-repo to resolve 

1. In Maven Build Server go to ".m2" directory and create a "Settings.xml" file.

 
    '''
	
        cd ~/.m2/
        ls -ltrh
        touch settings.xml
        authentification details.
    
	'''
	

2. To Store Snapshots or Releases in Maven Artifactory:

     ''' 
        
		ls -ltrh
        vi pom.xml
        after distribution management.

     '''

+ Provide the urls To Store Snapshots or Releases in Maven Artifactory.



##  6.4.Verify:

   '''
   
      mvn clean install  
   
   '''