
#  8. SonarType Nexus Docker Repositorys To Push & Pull Docker Images:


##  8.1. Hosted Repository for Docker (Private Registry for Docker):

+ A hosted repository using the Docker repository format is typically called a private Docker registry. 
+  It can be used to upload your own container images as well as third-party images. 
+  It is common practice to create two separate hosted repositories for these purposes.



##  8.2. Create a Hosted Repository for Docker:

### 1. Pre-requisites:

+ Make sure Nexus is successfully configured, it is up and running.
+ Also do open port 8085 open as well besides port 8081 for Nexus.
+ Docker is setup and running.


### 2. Steps to configure Nexus 3 as Docker Registry:

1. Login to Nexus and click on Server Administration link at the top of the window. Click on Repositories.
2. Now click on create repository
3. Choose docker hosted repository
4. Choose the value as mentioned:

    '''
	
        Name    : Docker-Private-Repo
        Httpport: 8085
        Enable Docker API V1.
    
	'''


5. Click on Create repository.


### Configure Realm :

6. Move Docker Bearer Token realm to right by clicking on >

+ This settings allows docker repository to have anonymous read enabled.


7. after moving save it.



## 8.3. How to upload Docker images into Nexus docker Registry | Upload Docker images to Nexus Decker Registry:


### 1. Pre-Requistes:

+ Make sure Docker is installed and up and running.
+ Nexus is up and running and Docker registry is already is configured. 
+ If you have not yet, click here to setup Nexus 3 to configure as Docker Registry.



### 2. Steps to configure in Docker to upload Docker images to Nexus:


1. Configure Docker service to use insecure registry with http.Create Docker daemon file if it does not exist.


   ''' 


             # sudo vi /etc/docker/daemon.json

               Add entries like below:
               Enter NExus URL along with port number used for Docker registery

                   {
               "insecure-registries" : ["nexus_public_dns_name<Change-To-Your-Nexus-repository-URL>:8085"]
                   }

    '''
	

2. Restart Docker daemon after above configuration changes.


    ''' 
         
		 sudo systemctl restart docker
    
	'''


3. Login to Docker Registry hosted in Nexus 3.

+ Make sure you are able to login to Docker Registry hosted in Nexus by executing below command:

    ''' 
	
        sudo docker login -u admin nexus_public_dns_name:8085

    '''

and then enter nexus admin password



4. Download Dockerized code from my repo

      '''
	  

          git clone https://bitbucket.org/ananthkannan/mydockerrepo; cd mydockerrepo/pythonApp

     '''

5. Create a Docker image and tag the image per Nexus Registry

    '''
        
		sudo  doker build . -t nexus_public_dns_name:8085/mypythonimage
    '''
	


6. Push the image into Docker Registry

     '''
     	
		sudo docker push nexus_public_dns_name:8085/mypythonimage

     '''

7. Verify in Nexus if images are uploaded

+ Login to Nexus, click on Browse, choose Docker registry


