
# 1. DevOps Introduction:


## 1.1. What is DevOps.

+ DevOps is a set of practices that combines Software development ( DEV ) & IT Operations ( OPS ). 
+ It aims to shorten the systems development life cycle and provide continious delivary with high software quality.


## 1.2. DevOps is Simple & DevOps is Difficult :

+ Developer gives a piece of code.
+ DevOps Engineer has to copy this code on to the server.
+ He asked us to follow some rules and conditions.

## Conditions:

+  I will give code every day or couple of times in a day.  ( we may need additional DevOps Tools ).
+  Compile & Deploy it on test & prod servers.              ( think about automation & tools )
+  Prod Servers are used by client. So it should be up and running all the time.


## 1.3. Devops Tools We Need:

1. Source Code Management Tools.
2. Build Tools.
3. CI-CD Tools.
4. Deployment Tools.
5. Infrastructure Tools
6. Monitoring Tools.

## 1.4. DevOps Life Cycle:

1. Continious Development.
2. Continious Integration.
3. Continious Deployment.
4. Continious Testing.
5. Continious Monitoring.


## 1.5. DevOps Tools Which We are going to Learn:

1. Continioud Development:  N/A ( Visual Studio ).

 - Source Code Management:  Git & GitHub.

2. Continious Integration:  

 - CI              :  jenkins
 - Unit Test       :  Junit
 - Build           :  Maven
 - Code Analysis   :  SonarCube
 - Build Artifacts :  Jfrog / Docker Hub.
 
3. Continious Deployment: 

 - CM               : Ansible
 - Infrastructure   : AWS, Dcoker, Kubernetes.
 
4. Continious Testing  :

 - Post Deploymemt Testing  : NA 
 
5. Continious Monitoring: Prometheus & Grafana.
 
