
# 1. Maven Introduction:


## 1.1. What is Maven ?

+ Apache Maven is a software project management and comprehension tool based on the concept of project object model POM.
+ Maven can manage a projects build, reporting, & documentation from a central piece of info.
+ Maven is widely used build automation tool for a java projects.


## 1.2. How Maven help at Developer Level:


###Developer Activities:

+ Write code in favorite IDE.
+ Compile the code locally.
+ Test it.
+ Create a package.
+ Deploy it local application server.
+ push the working code to Source Code Repository.



## 1.3.Challenge over here :

+ While writing his appilcation code its quite common behaviour that using third party binaries or packages.
+ so we need to make sure that while compiling and building code we have all relevent binaries or packages.
+ as a developer i need to download all relevent packages manually.
+ lets assume that u have all binaries and ur code working at yout local system. 
+ developer cant push all binaries to SCM.
+ When a new feature build again u need a latest binaries & packages.
+ it become a problem that every time downloading manually of binaries or packages.
+ Instead of downloading manually what if we have a file where we can mention required binary & package names that file it self downloads when ever we need.
+ Here Where Maven comes to the Picture.
+ Maven can able to  Download all the third party libraries or binaries which are required for your  applications. it also do the compilation test and deployments.
+ Sharing a source code and along with file called POM.xml.


## 1.4. How does it work at devOps Engineer level:


+ once developer is tested his code he will comit and push code to scm. 
+ once its pushed you need to take source code and build a artifact.
+ When ever devops engineer is doing that he also need dependencies.
+ once u have taken those dependencies u need to build and do unit test. and deploy apps. 
+ Maven can help us here.



# 2. Install Java & Eclipse on Windows :


## 2.1. Install Java:

1. Search for java jdk download.
2. https://www.oracle.com/sg/java/technologies/downloads/#jdk19-windows
3. Choose x64 Installer from above link.
4. Double click above package with admin access and proceed with installation.


## 2.2. Config Environmental Variables:


1. Select MyPc Right click for Properties --->> Advanced System Settings --->>Environment Variables.
2. System Variables--->>Select Path-Update path of java--->Edit the path --->>Copy java location upto bin. where its installed
3. For Setup JAVA_HOME --->>New --->>Variable=JAVA_HOME & Value=where java with out bin  is installed path.


## 2.3. Verify:
+ goto command prompt  

 'java -version'


## 2.4. How to Install Eclipse:


+ Eclipse is one of the widely used IDE Tool for the Java Developers to develop compile build and deploy.

1. search for eclipse.org
2. go to downloads 
3. Select version of eclipse & Download.
4. Doubleclick to install 
5. select java for developers options and choose path for install.
4. Launch and check for workspace for your new project.


# 3. Create First Maven Project:


## 3.1. Create Project:

1. Open Eclipse.
2. File --->New--->Others---->Maven--->Select Maven Project----> Choose WorkSpace Location
   --->Choose ArchiType ( Maven Archetype and quick start )--->> Group ID: org.apache.maven.archetype.
3. Provide Maven Co-ordinates.


## 3.2.What is Architype: 

+ Archetype is a Maven project templating toolkit. Default Directory Structure.
+ An archetype is defined as an original pattern or model from which all other things of the same kind are made. 
+ The name fits as we are trying to provide a system that provides a consistent means of generating Maven projects.

## 3.4. Maven Coordinates:

+ groupId   : This is generally unique amongst an organization or a project. can be same for all projects in same org
+ artifactId: The artifactId is generally the name that the project is known by.  can be diff 
+ version   : This is the last piece of the naming puzzle. based on version.


## 3.5.Default Directory Structure:

cd Project

-/src/main/java      ---Where Main java Code Exists.
-/src/test/java      ---Test casses for above code.
-src
-target
-pom.xml

## 3.6.Steps Involved in Build Projects:


+ To Buld an App
+ Compile source code.
+ App.java-->app.class
+ App.Test,java--->AppTest.class
+ Run test Casses.
+ Packaging jar/ear/war files.
+ Deploy to server ( may not be the primary responsibility of maven.

--Select your project --->RightClicl--->Run--->>Maven Build--->>Goals--->>clean install package--Run


#  4. Maven Goals:

+ usually Maven Goals are defined in Build Lyfe Cycle Format.
+ We need to choose the right goals for our project.
+ There are 3 default Lifecycle Manager: Default-Clean-Site.
+ Below are the important Build LyfeCycle Goals;

     '''

       Clean         :     Remove all files generated by previous Build.
       Validate      :     Validate the project is correct and all necessary information is available.
       Compile       :     Compile the source code of the project.
       test-compile  :     compile the test source code into the test destination directory.
       test          :     run tests using a suitable unit testing framework.
       package       :     take the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as jar,waretc
       verify        :     run any checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria.
       install       :     Install the package into local repository, for use as a dependency in other proj  ects locally.
       deploy        :     copies the final package to the remote repository for sharing with other projects.
    
	'''    
                  

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________


5. POM.XML:
==============
- POM stands for "Project Object Model". 
- It is an XML representation of a Maven project held in a file named pom.xml.
- It containns information about the project and configuration details used by Maven to build the project. 
- It contains default values for most projects.
- What ever dependencys you mentioned it will download from maven repos.

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________

6. Transtive Dependency:
========================
- Some additional dependencys can be download even u not mentioned in pom.xml called as Transtive Dependency.
- It Depends on which u mentioned in jar dependencys.

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________


7. Maven Repositories:
======================
Local and Remote Repository.
----------------------------
- When ever you run a Maven Project Goals first time maven project builds a local repository  under users home .M2 directory.
- When ever we run any commands it requires any dependency it will pull from internet (Maven Enterprise Repository) or (Maven Central Repository) and stores in local repository  based on .jar files. This information  again gathered from pom.xml



___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________


8. Push your Maven Project to GitHub:
=========================================
. Lets assume Developer1 bild his code and he wants to share his code with Developer2 hes planning to push his code to GitHub.

Step1:
------
. Create a project in github repo.
. Push an existing repo from the cmd line.

# git remote add origin https;//github.com/rohith/first.project.git
# git branch -M main
# git push origin main

- for above activity you meed to make a config b/w gitbash & github.

___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________





