
5. Git - Create Operation  With gitHub repo:
===============================================


5.1. Create a GitHub Repository:
================================

1. Login to https://github.com/
2. In the upper-right corner of any page, use the  drop-down menu, and select New repository.
3. Type a short, memorable name for your repository. For example, "hello-world".
4. Optionally, add a description of your repository. For example, "My first repository on GitHub."
5. Choose a repository visibility. For more information, see "About repositories."
6. Select Initialize this repository with a README.
7. Click Create repository.

Congratulations! You've successfully created your first repository, and initialized it with a README file.



5.2. Access to your repositories:
==================================
- You can invite users to become collaborators to your personal repository.
- Repositories owned by an organization can grant more granular access.
- If you're a member of an enterprise with managed users, you can only invite other members of your enterprise to collaborate with you. 


1. Ask for the username of the person you're inviting as a collaborator. 
   If they don't have a username yet, they can sign up for GitHub 
   For more information, see "Signing up for a new GitHub account".

2. On GitHub.com, navigate to the main page of the repository.
3. Under your repository name, click  Settings. 
   If you cannot see the "Settings" tab, select the  dropdown menu, then click Settings.
4. In the "Access" section of the sidebar, click  Collaborators & teams.
5. Click Invite a collaborator.
6. In the search field, start typing the name of person you want to invite, then click a name in the list of matches.
7. Click Add NAME to REPOSITORY.
8. The user will receive an email inviting them to the repository. 
   Once they accept your invitation, they will have collaborator access to your repository.



5.3. Git Add, Commit, Push Changes to Git Remote Repository:
=============================================================

. We have created a bare repository on the server and allowed access for two users.
. From now on, Tom and Jerry can push their changes to the repository by adding it as a remote.

. Git init command creates .git directory to store metadata about the repository every time it reads the configuration from the .git/config file.
. Tom creates a new directory, adds README file, and commits his change as initial commit. 
. After commit, he verifies the commit message by running the git log command.



1. Working Directory :
----------------------

# mkdir hello-world
# cd hello-world

# git init
Initialized empty Git repository in /home/tom/tom_repo/.git/

# touch  file1 file2 file3 
# echo 'TODO: Add contents for README' > README

# git status -s



2. Adding File to Staging Area from Working Directory:
---------------------------------------------------------

# git add .
# git status -s



3. Commiting Files from Staging Area to Local Repository:
---------------------------------------------------------

# git commit -m 'Initial commit'

# git status -s 
# git log                                    # Tom checks the log message by executing the git log command.



5. Push changes from Local Repository to Remote Repository:
--------------------------------------------------------------

# git remote add origin https://github.com/prassurohith/hello-world.git
# git push -u origin main

